The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA )is a collaborative project between the National Cancer Institute (NCI) and the National Human Genome Research Institute. At first, the pilot study was focused on just three cancer types, beginning in around 2006. As of 2023, 33 cancer types have been studied in over 10,000 tumour samples. The main aims of the TCGA curation are summarised as follows. To progress our understanding of genetics in human cancer using the new sequencing technology advancements (which were newer at the time of the pilot). To aim to uncover large genome alterations that occur in cancer which can only be seen with whole genome sequencing over a large sample size. Furthermore, they aimed to make this information openly available in order to advance the application of genomic data into healthcare. The methods used when analysing the tumour samples include sanger-based sequencing, SNP arrays, methylation analysis using an Illumina platform. This aimed to look for SNPs, copy number variants, loss of heterozygosity and more (Tomczak, Czerwińska and Wiznerowicz, 2015) (Weinstein _et al._, 2013). This data is available from the NCIs platform Genomic Data commons (GDC) data portal to explore or download the raw files, and on other open access platforms such as cBioPortal. Many studies of genes use TCGA data to validate their findings (Goovaerts _et al._, 2018; Trucco _et al._, 2019; Shou _et al._, 2020). TCGA data can be accessed by researchers or explored on databases such as CBioPortal. This data is important to the discovery of biomarkers of cancer. Researchers can analyse the mutational data and gene expression information to explore patterns that are specific to specific types of cancer and subtypes of cancer. This also includes the discovery of prognostic biomarkers, as the TCGA includes survival rates as part of their patient data. This research can allow for the stratification of patients into new subgroups based on particular biomarkers that are correlated with patient outcomes, or improved efficacy of cancer drugs. Therefore, allowing for more personalised treatment plans for cancer.

References:

Tomczak, K., Czerwińska, P. and Wiznerowicz, M. (2015) ‘Review\<br>The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA): an immeasurable source of knowledge’, _Contemporary Oncology/Współczesna Onkologia_, 2015(1), pp. 68–77. Available at: <https://doi.org/10.5114/wo.2014.47136>.

Weinstein, J.N. _et al._ (2013) ‘The Cancer Genome Atlas Pan-Cancer analysis project’, _Nature Genetics_, 45(10), pp. 1113–1120. Available at: https\://doi.org/10.1038/ng.2764.

Goovaerts, T. _et al._ (2018) ‘A comprehensive overview of genomic imprinting in breast and its deregulation in cancer’, _Nature Communications_, 9(1), p. 4120. Available at: https\://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-018-06566-7.

Trucco, L.D. _et al._ (2019) ‘Ultraviolet radiation–induced DNA damage is prognostic for outcome in melanoma’, _Nature Medicine_, 25(2), pp. 221–224. Available at: https\://doi.org/10.1038/s41591-018-0265-6.

Shou, Y. _et al._ (2020) ‘Identification of Signatures of Prognosis Prediction for Melanoma Using a Hypoxia Score’, _Frontiers in Genetics_, 11. Available at: https\://www\.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fgene.2020.570530 (Accessed: 26 July 2023).
